---
title: My encounter with CSRF
tags: csrf
author: djxploit
show_author_profile: true
show_title: true
show_date: true
show_tags: true
full_width: false
header: false
footer: true
show_edit_on_github: false
show_subscribe: false
license: false
---

I was invited to a private program. Generally I always look for [CSRF](https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf) first. While looking the update profile feature, I found that there is no csrf token present in the requests. But there was another form of protection. The request was using content-type `application/json`. And we can't pass this content type through the `<form>` tag. We will need to have a [CORS-misconfiguration](https://portswigger.net/web-security/cors) vulnerability, in order to send the `application/json` content type through an ajax request. But unfortunately, the website was not vulnerable to CORS misconfiguration.

I tend to keep notes whenever I am reading a blog or hackerone hactivity, or just scrolling through twitter feeds. And in times like this where I have a hunch for potential vulnerability, I always check my notes. From there I found that I need to try changing the content-type of the request, and see if the server accepted other content-types. So I changed the content-type of the JSON request to `application/x-ww-urlencoded` and also changed it's JSON body to urlencoded form. For ex `{"param":"value"}` would become `param=value`. I then submitted the request, and the request got accepted. So now I can build a proof-of-concept using the `<form>` tag, as by default `<form>` tag sends `application/x-www-urlencoded` content-type.
I reported the bug, and was nicely awarded.

Note: 
Sometimes the request contains a "X-Requested-With" header. Such headers can only be sent through a ajax requests, provided you have a CORS-misconfiguration. This is because , when any custom header is present , ajax issues a PREFLIGHT request, and if server doesnot respond with "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" header, the request will fail. 
So even if you change the content-type to some other content-type , due to the custom header, the request will fail. You could try to send the request by removing the custom header. You may get lucky.

If the server doesnot accept urlencoded body, you could try to change the content-type to `text/plain` and keep the body in JSON form only. Server tends to accept them. In this case you would be able to execute a CSRF, provided no custom header is sent.

Form tags supports 3 content-types : `application/x-ww-form-urlencoded , text/plain , multipart/form-data`




