---
title: Accidental second order error based sql injection
tags: sql
author: djxploit
show_author_profile: true
show_title: true
show_date: true
show_tags: true
full_width: false
header: false
footer: true
show_edit_on_github: false
show_subscribe: false
license: false
---
Hello everyone.   
So this issue was found on a private program. There was a feature to create campaigns for different purpose. It required various form fields, like campaign_name, duration of the campaign, mode of the campaign(private/public), etc. On submitting the form, a POST request was sent containing the form fields. This will inturn generate a link for the created campaign , and using this link the user could access it. The POST data contain a field `campaign_name` , and that was the injection point.  

I was originally looking for second order xss on this feature, as the value of `campaign_name` field was getting reflected in the source code of the generated campaign (accessible using the generated link). So I tried to see which characters are encoded(in an attempt for possible xss). And in that process, I inserted a `double_quote(")`, and upon visting the generated link, it gave me a sql error. To confirm, I added another `double_quote(")` and the error was gone, and I received a 200 OK response status (On error it was giving me 500 status with the sql error). So this confimed that it is an error-based sql injection. The error message also revealed the structure of the sql query used to retrieve the value of `campaign_name`:  
  ```select name from campaign where name like "campaignx%"```  

So my injection was in `campaignx`. By looking at above query it is evident that injecting a single double quote would break the query, but 2 double quote won't break the query. Also in order to make sure that my injected query doesnot break the original query, I need to discard everything that is after the injection point (the remaining `%"` of the query). For that I need to use comments. Upon trial and error, I found that `#` is working as a valid comment (indicating that the database may be mysql). So my injected query is like :  
  ```select name from campaign where name like "campaignx"injected_data;#%"```  
The semicolon is used to end the statements that are being used in the injection.  

My next option was to extract data. First I tried to check what keywords are allowed. This is because, when I tried to add `and` or `or` keyword, it was blocked by
cloudflare WAF, giving me a 403 status code. So then I checked for `UNION`, luckily this was allowed. Similarly `ORDER by` was also allowed. But white spaces are
not allowed. So I tried various bypasses, and settled on sql inline comments `/**/`. So now I could use `UNION` to execute additional sql queries in the injected
point. So if I am going to use UNION, one thing to remember is that the number of columns, the previous table has, should be equal to number of columns you are
accessing in your query. So if `campaign` table has 3 columns ,then we should also use 3 columns. So the UNION query be like: 
  ```select name from campaign where name like "campaignx"/**/UNION/**/select/**/1,2,3;#%"```  

But as we don't know the column number of the `campaign` table, we need to find that using the `ORDER BY` clause as follows :  
  ```select name from campaign where name like "campaignx"/**/ORDER/**/BY/**/1;#```  
If this returned no error, then we need to increase the `ORDER BY` number, unless we get an error. So for example, if `ORDER BY 5` gives an error, but `ORDER BY 4`
doesnot give an error, then we can conclude that the table `campaign` has 4 columns.  

So now we could finally use the union statement. So I ran the follwoing query:  
  ```select name from campaign where name like "entered campaign"/**/UNION/**/select/**/1,2,3,4;#```  
This gave me 200 status error, meaning that the query executed without any error. So it is valid.
But the thing is none of the 1,2,3 or 4 is reflected in the response. So I could not find which column is reflecting in the output , so which one should I use for 
extracting information. But that was obivious, as this was error-based sql, so only when the query will return error, error will be displayed.  

So searching for cheatsheets and resources, I found that error messages can also be used to extract information. And this is what I used. But out of many techniques, like convert(), duplicate select statements and updatexml(), only updatexml() tends to work in my case. But updatexml also has a limitation, that it can only output 32 chars. But while trying the below query, I ran into a problem :  
  ```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,(@@version),null),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL;#```  
This returned only the last 3 chars of the version.   
Searching more about updatexml() , I found that I need to use concat() , in order to get the full 32 bytes. But soon I found that concat() is also blocked by WAF.
This time I took the challenge, and tried various methods for bypassing by following online resources. Soon I found that using `null byte (0x00)` , I could bypass the WAF. And by null byte, I mean while sending the POST request, edit the request in hex editor(burp suite also provide) and add a null byte(00) between the concat keyword. So the query seems like :  
  ```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,concat(0x3a,(@@version)),null),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL;#```  
And this gave me the full version, as the size of the string was below 32 bytes.  

So now I can use following query to retrieve other information.   
Database names can be retrieved by : `select schema_name from information_schema.schemata`  
Table name of current database : `select table_name from information_schema.tables where table_schema=database()`  
Column name of a table : `select column_name from information_schema.columns where table_name="mytablename"`  

But the problem occured, when I tried to implement it.  
  ```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,concat(0x3a,(select schema_name from information_schema.schemata/**/LIMIT/**/0,1)),null),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL;#```  
This gave me the 1st database_name. To get the second one I simply need to increase the LIMIT from 0,1 to 1,1 and so on.  
But what if the 1st database_name is greater than 32 bytes (that would not be the case for database names generally, but would be the case for the records like email,password, as they are generally greater than 32 bytes, considering that they are encrypted). So in that case I would only be able to retrieve the 1st 32 bytes and the rest would simply be truncated.  

So again googling for this situation, I found a stackoverflow thread, that gives a hint towards this situation. So the solution is I need to use SUBSTR()
Query would be :   
```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,concat(0x3a,SUBSTR((select schema_name from information_schema.schemata LIMIT 0,1),1,32)),null),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL;#```  
This would retrieve the 1st 32 byte of the 1st database name, and to get the remaining part of 1st database name (if there is any), we just need to increase the SUBSTR location number from 1 to 32 like :  
```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,concat(0x3a,SUBSTR((select schema_name from information_schema.schemata LIMIT 0,1),32,32)),null),NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL,NULL;#```  
and so on.  
Now this query can be used to retrieve the database names. But there is extra query that is being used. For example, if the database name is less than 32 bytes, but if we are still calling the 2nd query to look for 2nd 32 bytes also, then that query is just wastage of time.  
Also if the name is more than 64 bytes, we would need 3 queries to get the full database name. But as we don't know the total length of the database name, we would simply issue 2 queries or a preprogrammed number of queries, and so that would mean wastage of query or loss of data.  
So searching for this , I again found a solution on internet. This solution looks like as follows :  
```"/**/UNION/**/select/**/updatexml(null,concat(0x3a,SUBSTR((SELECT/**/CAST(GROUP_CONCAT(table_name,0x0a)/**/as/**/CHAR(4096))/**/FROM/**/(SELECT/**/*/**/FROM/**/information_schema.tables/**/where/**/table_schema=database())a),1051,32)),null),1,1,1,1,1;#```  
So this query would first retrieve all the table names ,and then it would join them using the concat(), and then using cast() function it would convert the result to character type, and then finally using substr() , we could get them one by one , at 32 bytes per query.  
This is highly optimized, removes the overhead of changing limits to get different tables, also no wastage of query.  

Finally I rerieved all database information. 

**Note: Try the query in your local mysql database, then try in the live website.**  

Resources used :  
https://github.com/kleiton0x00/Advanced-SQL-Injection-Cheatsheet/tree/main/MSSQL%20-%20Error%20Based%20SQLi  
https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/121204/dumping-custom-query-via-sql-injection-when-output-is-in-the-die-function  
http://www.securityidiots.com/Web-Pentest/SQL-Injection/XPATH-Error-Based-Injection-UpdateXML.html  
https://websec.ca/kb/sql_injection  
https://rafaybaloch.com/2017/06/error-based-sql-injection-tricks-in.html  
https://www.exploit-db.com/papers/13650  
https://infosecwriteups.com/a-technique-that-a-lot-of-sql-injection-beginners-dont-know-atmanand-nagpure-write-up-abdc7c269dd5  
http://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/sql-injection/mysql-sql-injection-cheat-sheet  
https://www.programmersought.com/article/29625825274/  
https://incogbyte.github.io/hacking/2020/12/12/sqli-bypass-techs.html  
https://medium.com/@hninja049/advance-sql-injection-bypass-waf-10c50fdbb80d  
https://www.sqlinjection.net/time-based/  
https://shahjerry33.medium.com/sql-injection-remote-code-execution-double-p1-6038ca88a2ec  
https://www.exploit-db.com/docs/english/14475-sql-injection-tutorial.pdf  
https://websec.wordpress.com/2010/12/04/sqli-filter-evasion-cheat-sheet-mysql/  
https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/blob/master/SQL%20Injection/MySQL%20Injection.md  
https://book.hacktricks.xyz/pentesting-web/sql-injection  
https://www.programmersought.com/article/48964149849/  
