---
title: Ethernaut solutions
tags: ctf
author: djxploit
show_author_profile: true
show_title: true
show_date: true
show_tags: true
full_width: false
header: false
footer: true
show_edit_on_github: false
show_subscribe: false
license: false
---

Hello everyone, this is a complete solution writeup of all the levels in the ctf [Ethernaut](https://ethernaut.openzeppelin.com/).
During this time, I was learning hardhat, so I wanted to complete the challenge using hardhat. 
So let's get started. We can find the solidity contracts of all the levels of ethernaut in the repo https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/ethernaut/blob/master/contracts/contracts/levels. This might be required for getting the abi, when we want to interact with a specific level instance address.

Firstly I want to setup a basic hardhat project, where I will solve the challenges by creating scripts. For this challenge, I am not using 
hardhat console, and instead using scripts.
  `yarn init` : to initialize package.json file
  `yarn add --dev hardhat` : This will hardhat package to the project folder (we are not installing globally)
  `yarn hardhat` : Running this will ask you some questions about the project you want to create. Just hit enter, and the default will automatically be used. This command will initialize the folder with various folders and files that are required in a hardhat project. 

Now that we are all setup , let's start by understanding the challenge. When we click "play now", we will be taken to the "hello ethernaut" challenge.
Reading through the challenge, we find out that we need to interact with the info() method of this level's contract to complete this challenge.

Now to get the contract's address for this level, click on "Get new instance", and in the developer console, you will see the contract's address as "Instance address". Now create a script under the `scripts` folder and copy the instance address there. The objective is to call the `info` method present on that address.

I have already completed the challenge and here is the [solution script]().
Finally running the solution script, will complete the challenge, and when you click on "submit", you will be transferred to level completion page.


I opened the ethernaut ctf
page, got a contract addressinfo42(),
Clicked on create instance, and an instance was created.

Developer tool was small, also needed to learn hardhat, so I used hardhat

Using hardhat to interact with the instance address, as instance is the solidity code of that address

ethers.getContractAt("Instance", add1)

address given, contract name we can find out from the ethernaut soldiity source code

connected with that address using hardhat, but for that :
setup rinkeby network, url and private key of metamask, set other params like chainId and gaslimit, but those are more specific for custom testnets

Then also adjusted compiler versions to accomodate multiple compilers

Then as specified, called the info() method present at that address
This gave the hint of calling info1()
which gave hint info2("hello"),
which hgave infoNum(), 
which gave info42(),theMethodName(), method7123949(), 
password(), then authenticate("ethernaut0"), finally calling getCleared() to see if the level was cleared. This getCleared() is used in every level to
determine the success of the level. A flag is set to true, if the level is cleared

Then finally clicking on "submit instance" will take us to  level completion page.

Note: don't store passwords in public variable, as they can be accessed using getter functions.
